creating rejected candidates page (#3206)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-your-application-is-unsuccessful.md

---
title: If your teacher training application is unsuccessful

> subcategory: Your teacher training application

Reviewer: Should this be appearing on the category page?

description: |-

>   Read about what to do next if your teacher training application is unsuccessful. Find advice on the different reasons an application can be unsuccessful and how to get support.

Reviewer: slightly too long metadescription (176 characters) - could we cut back to 160 (or under)?

related_content:
    Choosing the right teacher training course provider : "/blog/choosing-the-right-teacher-training-course-provider"
    7 things to include in your teacher training application : "/blog/7-things-to-include-in-your-teacher-training-application"
    11 top tips for interview success : "/blog/11-top-tips-for-interview-success"
date: "2023-03-30"
keywords:
  - adviser
  - advisor
  - ITT
  - Initial Teacher Training
  - QTS
  - Qualified Teacher Status
  - Teacher Training Adviser
  - application
  - apply
  - how to apply
  - applying for teacher training
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/adviser-promo-apply
---

Try not to worry - you can reapply for up to 4 courses at a time, as many times as you want. Many people are successful the second or third time around.

It’s worth looking at the feedback the course provider has given to understand why your application was not accepted. This will help you to decide on your next steps.

There could be a number of reasons your application was unsuccessful:

> ### The course is full

Reviewer: I think these should be h2s rather than h3s, if there isn't a h2 nested above them

### The course is full

Unfortunately, popular courses do fill up quickly. You can [search for other courses](https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses) with a different provider if the one you applied for is now full.

> ### You do not have the GCSEs at minimum grade 4 (C), or equivalent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### You do not have the required GCSEs at minimum grade 4 (C), or equivalent
```
Does 'the GCSEs' sound a bit odd? Happy for this to be left as is if you think not!

To train to teach in primary and secondary schools in England, you’ll need:

* GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above in English and maths (and science if you want to teach primary)

> You could [find another course](https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses) with a training provider that will accept an equivalency test. You can also take your GCSE exams at any age if you do not have them or you can retake them to improve your grades.

Reviewer 2: Should we signpost people to how to take/retake GCSEs here?

On the adviser funnel dead end page about GCSEs, we say the following:

`If you do not have the right GCSEs, you can get them through a [GCSE training provider](https://nationalcareers.service.gov.uk/find-a-course/search). Make sure when you visit the website, you search for GCSE courses.`

Appreciate this adds more links so happy for you to leave this out if needed

### You do not have a bachelor’s degree or equivalent

> You’ll need a bachelor's degree or equivalent to train to teach. If you do not have one, you can still train to teach by doing an [undergraduate degree in teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-dont-have-a-degree) or become a [further education teacher](/become-a-further-education-teacher).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You’ll need a bachelor's degree or equivalent to teach in a primary, secondary or special school in England. If you do not have one, you can still train to teach by doing an [undergraduate degree in teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-dont-have-a-degree) or become a [further education teacher](/become-a-further-education-teacher).
```

### The provider could not verify your qualifications

To help show your qualifications, you can [get a certified statement of your exam results](https://www.gov.uk/replacement-exam-certificate) if you did your GCSEs and A levels in the UK. You should also be able to request a copy of your degree certificate from the organisation where you studied in the UK.

If you got your qualifications outside the UK, you should be able to request copies of your school results and degree from the places where you did them.

### Lack of subject knowledge

You may be able to do a [subject knowledge enhancement (SKE) course](/train-to-be-a-teacher/subject-knowledge-enhancement) to top up your subject knowledge. You could also find a course in a different subject.

### Lack of teaching or safeguarding knowledge

It may help to [get some school experience](/train-to-be-a-teacher/get-school-experience) so you can find out what it’s like to be a teacher and improve your knowledge and skills.

### No visa sponsorship

> Find out more about [how visa sponsorships work](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student) if you want to train to teach in the UK. You may also find another training provider that will sponsor a visa by filtering search results on ‘visa sponsorship’ when you search for courses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find out more about [how visa sponsorships work](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student) if you want to train to teach in the UK. You may also find another training provider that will sponsor a visa by searching for courses and then filtering by ‘Only show courses with visa sponsorship’.
```

Would it be clearer to flip this around - ie search first, then filter?

I've also put the full filter name - but change back if you feel this is not necessary

## Get advice on what to do next

A teacher training adviser can help you improve your application if you have been unsuccessful.

They can support you with:

* acting on any feedback
* making your application stronger

All our advisers have years of teaching experience and know the application process inside and out.

> [Learn more about teacher training advisers.](/teacher-training-advisers)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Learn more about teacher training advisers](/teacher-training-advisers).
```
